MTA-6893 Document Hub OIDC authentication (#382)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/mta-install/con_keycloak-migration.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-07-31
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="keycloak-migration_{context}"]
= Keycloak migration

[role="_abstract"]
As a {ProductFirstRef} administrator, you can federate user authentication to your Keycloak instance and reduce configuration complexity when you upgrade to {ProductShortName} 8.2.0. 

> When you upgrade to {ProductShortName} 8.2.0, the {ProductShortName} Operator finds the Red Hat Build of Keycloak (RHBK) in the {ProductShortName} namespace if you deployed Keycloak in earlier versions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you upgrade to {ProductShortName} 8.2.0, the {ProductShortName} Operator finds the Red Hat build of Keycloak (RHBK) in the {ProductShortName} namespace if you deployed Keycloak in earlier versions.
```

> If RHBK is available, {ProductShortName} installs a Keycloak Operator and deploys an `IdentityProvider` custom resource (CR) for your Keycloak instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If RHBK is available, the {ProductShortName} Operator installs a Keycloak Operator and deploys an IdentityProvider custom resource (CR) for your Keycloak instance.
```

> In this case, the Keycloak Operator manages the RHBK instance and configures a dedicated realm with necessary roles and permissions. You can configure Keycloak as the primary authentication method in the {ProductShortName} Tackle CR for an automatic redirect to your instance for user authentication. If you do not configure Keycloak as the primary authentication, you can select the *Sign-in with Keycloak* option from the Hub login page to redirect authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the Keycloak Operator manages the RHBK instance and configures a dedicated realm with the necessary roles and permissions. You can configure Keycloak as the primary authentication method in the {ProductShortName} Tackle CR for an automatic redirect to your instance for user authentication. If you do not configure Keycloak as the primary authentication method, you can click **Sign-in with Keycloak** on the Hub login page to redirect authentication.
```

> If you did not deploy an RHBK instance in the {ProductShortName} namespace (openshift-mta) before the upgrade or if you install {ProductShortName} for the first time, then {ProductShortName} no longer deploys the Keycloak Operator, Postgres database, and other RHBK resources. You no longer need to provision `1 GiB` for Keycloak database volume in the {ProductShortName} namespace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you did not deploy an RHBK instance in the {ProductShortName} namespace (`openshift-mta`) before the upgrade, or if you install {ProductShortName} for the first time, the {ProductShortName} Operator does not deploy the Keycloak Operator, PostgreSQL database, or other RHBK resources. You no longer need to provision 1 GiB for the Keycloak database volume in the {ProductShortName} namespace. 
```

> In such cases, you can configure a Keycloak instance separately and integrate it as an Identity Provider (IdP) for user authentication in {ProductShortName}. The Hub OpenID Connect (OIDC) federates user authentication to the Keycloak provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such cases, you can configure a Keycloak instance separately and integrate it as an identity provider (IdP) for user authentication in {ProductShortName}. The Hub OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider federates user authentication to the Keycloak provider.
```

> Configure Keycloak as the OIDC provider by using the `IdentityProvider` CR. You can continue to manage users and roles in Keycloak. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Keycloak as the OIDC provider by using the `IdentityProvider` CR, and continue to manage users and roles in Keycloak. 
```

To configure the existing Keycloak instance as an IdP for user authentication:

* Configure the Idp by using the `IdentityProvider` CR. 
* Configure the Keycloak instance uniform resource identifier (URI) as the OIDC issuer in the CR.
* Configure the Hub URL with the callback endpoint as the redirect URI.
* Deploy the CR in the same namespace where you installed the {ProductShortName} application in your cluster.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the existing Keycloak instance as an IdP for user authentication, complete the following tasks:

* Configure the IdP by using the `IdentityProvider` CR. 
* Configure the Keycloak instance uniform resource identifier (URI) as the OIDC issuer in the CR.
* Configure the Hub URL with the callback endpoint as the redirect URI.
* Deploy the CR in the same namespace where you installed the {ProductShortName} application in your cluster.
+
```

Consistent acronym
